README.md, before:

Pelican Markdown Unrendered Metadata
====================================

Read Pelican metadata from link references.

Usage
-----

Write metadata in the form `[//Pelican/KEY]: # (VALUE)`.
They can be placed anywhere in the document.
If the first text content is a top-level heading,
the heading is removed from the document, and used as the title.
For example,

```md
# Hello, world!

[//Pelican/date]: # (2000-10-31 00:00)
[//Pelican/author]: # (Noname)

Goodbye, world!
```

The equivalent MultiMarkdown document used by Pelican would be

```md
title: Hello, world!
date: 2000-10-31 00:00
author: Noname

Goodbye, world!
```

If a key has multiple sources (references, MultiMarkdown, heading),
the order of stored value is unspecified.

Installation
------------

Inside `pelicanconf.py`,
add `pelican_markdown_unrendered_metadata`
to the `PLUGINS` list variable,
and the `src` directory to the `PLUGIN_PATHS` list variable.

For example, if this `README.md` file is at the path
`${project_root}/plugins/pelican-markdown-unrendered-metadata/README.md`,
then the two variables in `${project_root}/pelicanconf.py` should contain

```py
PLUGINS = [
  'pelican_markdown_unrendered_metadata',
]
PLUGIN_PATHS = [
  'plugins/pelican-markdown-unrendered-metadata/src',
]
```

Raison d'être
-------------

Pelican metadata of Markdown documents
are colon-separated key-value pairs at the beginning of the document.
Markdown parsers see them as a block of text
and generate an unintended paragraph when rendered.

To mitigate this, the metadata can be embedded
inside a form of Markdown comments.
This plugin uses link references as comments, suggested by a
[StackOverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/20885980):

```md
[//]: # (This may be the most platform independent comment)
```

Commit message:

feat: add Pelican namespace plugin

README.md, after:

Pelican Markdown Unrendered Metadata
====================================

Read Pelican metadata from link references.

Usage
-----

Write metadata in the form `[//Pelican/KEY]: # (VALUE)`.
They can be placed anywhere in the document.
If the first text content is a top-level heading,
the heading is removed from the document, and used as the title.
For example,

```md
# Hello, world!

[//Pelican/date]: # (2000-10-31 00:00)
[//Pelican/author]: # (Noname)

Goodbye, world!
```

The equivalent MultiMarkdown document used by Pelican would be

```md
title: Hello, world!
date: 2000-10-31 00:00
author: Noname

Goodbye, world!
```

If a key has multiple sources (references, MultiMarkdown, heading),
the order of stored value is unspecified.

Installation
------------

If `PLUGINS` is not specified inside `pelicanconf.py`,
then installing this package should be sufficient setup.
Otherwise, inside `pelicanconf.py`,
add `markdown_unrendered_metadata` to the `PLUGINS` list variable.

Raison d'être
-------------

Pelican metadata of Markdown documents
are colon-separated key-value pairs at the beginning of the document.
Markdown parsers see them as a block of text
and generate an unintended paragraph when rendered.

To mitigate this, the metadata can be embedded
inside a form of Markdown comments.
This plugin uses link references as comments, suggested by a
[StackOverflow answer](https://stackoverflow.com/a/20885980):

```md
[//]: # (This may be the most platform independent comment)
```
